Just don't even think about it.
I'm going to keep an eye on it just in case.
All right.
Congratulations on your book.
Read the novel.
Thank you.
This is really amazing.
Publishers Weekly has an interviewer's guideline.
I've only done about 850 author interviews over the years, but if one of these questions seem really foolish, like mentors and publishing history and dates, that's because they want agents and stuff.
Okay.
But we will get to the stuff that certainly interests me, but this is T.W., and they are interested in the...
Do you like if we just do the basic biographical stuff for us?
Not at all.
No, it's going to be fine.
Why don't you just give me a quick biographical?
I was born in, I'm in my 50s.
I'm trying to clap so high.
Born and grew up in Michigan, Fort Michigan, and my father was an auto worker.
Let me guess, a Chevy plant?
Chevy plant.
I ended up working at a Chevy plant myself.
I guess that, too.
I had a terrible childhood.
I suppose my parents were out of the hallway, and they split when I was an infant, and I grew up with my father.
Did you see Echoes and Alex?
My first novel was pretty much I was out of the background, and Partly, a few friends I had.
That was wonderful for me to consider.
Yeah, oh, thank you.
Yeah.
I read first, by the way.
You know, I did take a little time.
Do you mind my interrupting?
No, no, no.
I didn't read this one first.
I'm glad I did, just because I kind of missed having this one in a sequence, you know.
Yeah.
Because I'd really like to... Truth of it, I think this book I really wanted to write first was Novemberfest.
Really?
I mean, it was... Well, just to back up...
That would have been impossible.
Oh, yeah, I couldn't do it.
Yeah, I mean, it's something that came later.
But I left school, left high school, lived in the Army.
Didn't you drop out as Alex did?
I did.
Well, actually, I was compelled to leave.
I was kicked out of high school, falsely charged.
I was billy of many things.
So you were over-kicked out of high school.
I was over-kicked out of high school.
Well, I was a kid who had a lot of problems in high school, and I've been arrested many times, and I did time in a juvenile detention home.
Really?
No, no, I didn't go to the state formatory.
Just the county detention home, Tennessee County.
Back into high school then.
In fact, I was kind of trying to get my life
asking an order, but I went to a football game and a fight broke out somewhere near me and I wasn't involved with it.
It was just kids in a fight, high school kids.
I was called into Brentsville's office the following Monday and suspended from school until I could not return until I came in with a parent.
My father had already died.
He was a suicide when we were living together and so I went to live with
Did you discover that?
I did, you know, the Cougars were together, and I'm an old school when I was in Italy, when we should have been working second shift.
So really quite a few autobiographies of the Lekalus in that book.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Did you steal 14 cards?
I did.
Really?
Did you get nailed for that?
Yeah.
In much the same way that our friends .
Yeah, that's pretty much streamlined on a black craft for a novel.
I shouldn't say it was easy to write.
It came automatically, but I'm sure you would know and appreciate it.
I didn't even know if I had a camera and recorded things.
But I did draw, certainly in some film members.
But going to Germany and going into the army, a 17-year-old getting kicked out of high school.
Well, to finish this little story, I was suspended by the high school and had to return then when they brought up.
They called in the head of the Board of Education for the city, and the principal, they had this little hearing, and the principal said, I saw this, I'm sitting on the 50-yard line, I saw this young man leap over rows of people trying to hit someone.
It simply wasn't true, and I said, no, I didn't do it.
The fact that it is for you?
Yeah, I guess so.
Had you already been, I mean, did you already have a record at that particular point?
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, I see this guy in there saying, just don't do anything.
You're out of here forever.
I suspect this is probably the same guy.
Yes.
When you want him to go play sports, and you have to go to the theater, you know, talking about... Yeah, I do.
I'm just coming back.
Yeah, unless I'm 72 at this point.
That year, I was suspended permanently.
There was no option of returning.
Your father was deceased at this point?
Yeah.
And I went with a friend of mine who was going to Richmond Navy.
I was hanging out in town.
I had nothing else to do.
With whom were you living?
I was living with my stepmother.
My father previously been married.
But before that, back to America.
And a friend was enlisting in the Navy.
It was an Army-Navy recruiting station.
There was the Navy guy and an Army sergeant sitting at an adjacent desk.
And all I was waiting for was kind of go through some part of his enlisting paperwork.
The Army sergeant said, excuse me.
And I started, it was kind of an answer.
for something to do for me.
And worked out.
I was leading my arms plan.
Had a good time in the Army.
Ended up in Germany.
Still 17 when I arrived in Germany after my basic training.
And the Army in Germany was interesting.
You know, the Army gave me a kind of solid base.
I was really very fond of the whole experience.
Well, I grew up.
I mean, that's where I kind of went pretty much to school.
You said something, I grew up, I would gather in every respect, but it's a luxury.
Mostly, but I suspect from what you said, this was a book you wanted, a variation thereof, a book you wanted to have done first.
I suspect that there was probably a similar kind of relationship with the German woman.
You don't have to answer that at all.
I remember when you were saying I grew up there.
I thought I'd just check the tape, okay?
You don't mind.
You can never be too careful, can't you?
Okay.
Okay, so you got out of the Army when?
Got in the Army in 1955, went in in 1952, for three years.
So you went in 1952 at the age of three?
Sixteen.
I just turned 17.
So, how old are you right now?
Sixty-nine.
Okay, you were born, I think you said 30?
Thirty-five.
Thirty-five, okay.
You know, what am I asking these questions?
Not at all.
I got out of the Army, had written away to schools when I was still in Germany, see if I could get into college.
I had a GED.
Why is it that I seem to know all these things, having read these books?
Those things keep talking up, don't they?
I feel a certain attachment for the GED, because I want to support that intervention in a way.
But I got accepted at Michigan State, oddly enough, and was an underachiever, and an honored student, and so on.
By that point in my life, I work very hard.
I'm pitching the paper in Lansing, by the way.
Oh, are you?
Oh, good.
I'm going to try and get this.
It's one of my kind of kids.
I think it's about 150,000 circulation.
Yeah.
I was here a couple of years ago.
I think I'll pitch you.
Oh, good.
I'll try to help out of the game.
It helps you, helps me.
But go ahead.
Well, anyway...
So what did you major in?
Actually, I majored in landscape architecture.
No thoughts at all at this point about the calling.
Well, that began to happen.
I began to really discover that I enjoyed writing papers for classes, and I discovered that I was good at it.
And I liked to read.
I've been a reader since I was very young.
You were sure of all the difficulties?
Yeah, I would escape into novels.
I grew up reading
people like Nelson Paltren and who is this?
A Chicago writer.
I think we always have, I always know.
No, I don't think I'm from Chicago.
I thought I'm from New York, but he made that from Chicago.
That makes my impression of everything I've ever read of.
It's not 400.
There are many of them.
James T. Farrell.
Yeah, a lot of writers from Chicago.
A bunch of writers.
A bunch of fine writers out of that area.
In any case, back to school I discovered I liked to write papers and did well and liked to read.
wandered off to the English department and took a writing course and just kind of captured me.
How far are you into this?
Sophomore or junior?
I was close to being a senior.
Really?
So did you get your degree in the landscape of architecture?
No, I got it in English.
Were you able to pile up enough credit?
No, well, the thing was I was in what was called the Honors College.
There was a new institution in Michigan State which said that
Credits in any one area did not count.
If you were admitted into this Honors College program, you could study anything you wanted to, get your degree to identify.
I quickly scrambled and took, I dropped architecture finally.
And I did prepare to go over to Ann Arbor to continue and become an actual architect.
And I mean, I loved doing that.
I was very good at it.
I finished drafting in the Army.
But it was kind of a situation where I was, I'd done all that work, all that architectural work, but I really fell involved with writing and reading and scrambled very quickly to summer school and took a bunch of courses in English and graduated with a degree in English in 1959.
Then, just to finish the biographical kind of sketch.
Actually, I went back to Europe for a while, eight or ten months.
You're still single?
Still single, yeah.
Came back and worked in the factory.
I worked at Chevrolet Assembly.
Say you moved to Detroit?
To Flint.
I was in Flint.
Worked at Chevrolet Assembly.
Worked at AC Spark Club.
Worked at, back when I first got out of the Army, I worked at Buick.
Worked on the line at Chevrolet.
And then went off to, went west.
This is kind of a big road.
I ended up in San Francisco.
Lived there for six months or so.
Are we in the 60s yet?
Yeah, we're into early 60s.
Returned, took a job then as a technical writer in Denver.
Worked for Martin Marietta Company.
Had my degree in English.
And got that job.
And then left Denver and went to Iowa City.
Enrolled in graduate school.
I spent a semester there.
Do they?
Tell me these two places.
I know these stories.
I went on to... I wasn't crazy about being in graduate school, and it's New York.
And I had a girlfriend that was living in New York.
went to New York in, whatever, 1962, and worked there as an architectural draftsman, and ended up getting married, and then returning to the University of Iowa in 1963 to finish out an MFA program.
He was at the workshop, right?
Yeah, in the Writers' Workshop.
My classmates, among others, were Ray Carter, a classmate I'm here to do, a bunch of good people, Barthi Murkaji.
Did you?
Yeah, she was a classmate here.
Yeah, yeah, a classmate who married her, they were both students there.
A bunch of other things going on to do nice things.
Um, that was, I began to publish my first story as a student.
And that evening post took a story.
Can you remember the name of the story?
Uh, the name of the story, my name was the story, was The Unspeakable.
And when it came out, and no one told me that this would happen, it had a different title.
And the title was The Survivors.
Um, and it was a, uh,
It was an invented story about a person who gets wounded in Korea when I've never been.
It was my first public story.
And did you more or less have this off on your own, and it'll be your first try, and you'll experience it?
No, that's not.
I've sent out many stories before I sent.
We had felt this thing of rejection.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it was very nice to have something taken.
And this was what year when you published your first book?
I guess it was published in 1965.
Yeah.
You don't want to make it.
The chronology is important here.
Anyway, having two children by then very quickly, 64 and 65, my first two children were born.
And we moved down to the family.
Sure.
My oldest, his name after me, his name is Ted.
Ted Jr.
And my second is Hannah.
All three of my kids are in college right now.
Ted is working at MSA at Emerson.
Yeah, well, there's a woman who works at my college.
There's a woman over there, Diane Daniel, who called me.
Are you going to be doing anything in 10 weeks now?
I said, you know, I am.
Believe it or not, I said, I'm doing something for P.W.
And I guess she does your son.
Oh, oh.
You will have something for the wedding.
So she'll handle this.
We'll probably put her on page one, actually.
Not the front page of the news section, but the entertainment section.
Yeah.
Anyway, I'm sorry.
You gave me the three names, right?
Ted, Anna, and Steven.
Okay.
And they think what?
Ted is at Emerson, I guess.
Ted is at Emerson, working on the MFA.
Anna is at Cornell.
His foundation is called the VMA, the Doctor of Musical Art.
She's a composer.
And my son, Steven, is a senior.
With a PH or a B?
A PH.
With a V. With a V. He's a senior at the University of Colorado.
and return to the narrative there.
Don't worry, I'll get you back on track.
Don't get mad at me.
My wife's family... This is Janet, of course.
No, it's not Janet.
No, this is Sharon.
Janet is my domestic significant other.
My wife's father.
in 1986, brain tumor.
Anyway, we have a number of books dedicated to Jeff, that's correct.
Yeah, the last two, yeah.
Anyway, back getting out of Iowa in 1965, my wife's parents had a farmhouse that they didn't occupy in Connecticut, and there were two children
I kind of lived there for a year, just as a kind of transition, trying to find a way in the world.
And we did that, and I wrote out, you know, sent letters to feel like it was a teaching job, because it was what people were doing, and I never really anticipated being a teacher.
But you could get jobs through the mail at the time.
In fact, I was offered a job at a school in Indiana,
DePaul, something like that, where Dan Quayle went to college.
DePaul, at the University.
Dan, Paul, and they offered me a job.
They called up at the last minute and said, the person we were hiring you to replace has changed his mind.
We have to withdraw a job off.
And my wife, Sharon, my first choice at the University of New Hampshire, she said, why don't you have a job?
and just call New Hampshire back.
Pippa turned me down, said it's a great answer about a job, and I said, no, no, you don't need to call the college of math.
She said, giant!
Okay, okay.
So I got on the phone call the University of New Hampshire in August.
And, you know, not knowing where we were going to be going, you know, what's going to happen.
and talked to a new chairman and he said, can you come and teach, you know, three weeks from now?
We could use you.
And I said, how can you get there?
So off we went and we packed up and moved to New Hampshire.
Here?
Well, over in the Durham area, from the University of Lake Tahoe, 15 miles inland.
And I stayed there.
I was finally tenured as a professor and published books.
I had a third shot as a TV supporter.
I stayed there until 1980.
Why did you leave?
That's a pertinent question in light of the novel, certainly.
Actually, I left because my first novel had come out.
It's done quite well, having great reviews, and it's been very well financially.
And I was maybe filled with sense of false fear.
But I wanted to really make a run as being a writer on a full-time basis.
And I resigned and took an advance to write a new model, which was the Trudy Tech.
Although, what year is it together?
Actually, it was in 1978.
Okay, so the first novel was 72, right?
72.
Then I had another novel, a little novel, came out in 76 called The German Affair, which is just as well forgotten.
And then I ran a message.
And then I got into writing this novel called The True Testament.
In fact, what happened is I've taken my oldest son.
We were both hockey boss, and he was a young kid playing hockey.
And we'd go to the University of New Hampshire's hockey games, and we got into the national playoff.
And we went out to Detroit to see the treat for the father's son to go off.
And when we just landed in Detroit, they were in the midst
this strain of kidnapping to kids, just my son's age, but above the result.
And it was such a powerful thing.
I was looking for something powerful to write about, and I meant to do a non-fiction account of the impact of those child adoption.
Poor kids were about to have murdered me.
Did they ever saw it?
No, they never did.
Were they real?
Were they serial?
Yeah.
I can't remember the time sequence of cover, so it was, I don't know, 15, 17 months altogether.
And the kids were kept for a period of time.
One of them was kept for a couple months before the girl's body was found.
Yeah, yeah.
So she disappeared walking up from school or something,
Two months later, I thought I was trying to write along the interstate.
So somebody had kept her?
Someone kept her for that period of time, yeah.
Yeah, it was.
It was overwhelming and stunning kind of thing.
And so I proposed a book contract to my publisher, which was... I'd gone from Random House to Thomasville with my editor.
This is Jim Tillman.
He was my editor at Random House, and he left Random House and started his own internet called Thomas.
Yeah, he became Thomas.
He was Simon & Schuster.
In print.
Yeah, in print.
And Jim gave me what at the time was a Hanson advance.
and support, and I left my job at New Hampshire and decided to go for that book and be a professional.
It didn't work.
They didn't catch the killer.
And I probably went to do that.
This was going to be a nonfiction book.
Yeah, a nonfiction account.
You have to kind of follow this as a journal.
We moved out there with my family.
We moved to Michigan.
So you were really shooting crafts then, weren't you?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I thought even if they didn't, I could write a meaningful book.
And I worked on it and worked on it.
And it was nonfiction.
And I reconstructed the crime.
And I worked with the police task force.
And I did all that stuff.
And I wrote it on the cop part.
I had a tape recorder and I'd take interviews with all the family members, the brothers and parents and sisters.
Wow.
How much time did you spend that?
Finally, I spent about six months there doing that research and then reconstructing and coming up with the first draft manuscript.
I spent the next two years, three years.
I could never make it work.
That's the point.
What was the working title of it?
I called it, my working title was the Woodward Corridor.
Woodward Avenue was sort of the vein.
It's business, isn't it?
Yeah.
It's business.
I know what you're telling me here.
It's easier to recall it now from this removal of 10 years or something like that, but it's something to invest yourself into a project like that.
And how did you make the decision?
Did Jim make the decision?
I did it all on my own.
This is going no way, right?
Well, Jim, I ended up with a 1,300-page manuscript.
And you submitted it?
No, but Jim insisted on seeing it.
I can't say I haven't made it work.
of course, bonding or in touch with the state policeman who was in charge of the investigation.
By that time, he became a captain in the state police, a man named Robert Robertson.
He would call me once in a while.
I would call him.
I would hear from people in jail.
It would have gotten out that I was supposed to know all the inside dope about this crime.
I'd seen a lot of stuff,
They didn't show me everything.
How close were they in the place?
I don't think so.
They did, but it was so generic in general that it would have fit any numbers.
And I ended up with this manuscript which didn't work.
And Jim finally said, but then he paid me the full advantage.
He said, let me see it.
And let me take a look and see what I think.
So I mean,
and we went off in a box fast big.
And he looked at it and called me back, called me up and said, why don't you just try to take one of these cars and do it as a model?
And I went in, and that was a good idea, kind of, because I was really something.
It was taking me out.
In fact, I had to get a job, you know, teaching jobs in the meantime when I got into it, but...
And I went in the very next day and set page one and started a novel.
And it became a true detective.
I relocated it, in fact, fictional-wise.
But it's very much a first crime.
It's very similar to the single crime that takes place in a true detective.
So this is probably an
the least autobiographical novel then.
Yeah, there's nothing autobiographical novel.
This is really, if you're looking for clues, Ted, you're not going to necessarily find them in this book.
No.
No, it's totally embarrassing.
So I've probably really read the books that are going to take this, yeah.
I know.
I love the biographical stuff that you do.
How are we doing?
Is it still turning around?
Yeah.
It's an hour each back when you have to check out every length in a while.
And so that notification step, I guess it worked out in a way, didn't it?
Do you still feel like that?
I don't know that I would, I wouldn't take down a project like that yet.
I mean, a lot of writers seem to get attracted to actual events, crime incidents, because they're
Because they seem to speak to such meaning and power, I kind of want to try to capture.
I spent eight years in my book.
I mean, Bloomberg is one of 14 chapters.
I have one chapter that took me four years.
There's this mystery guy who is an undue influence.
I'm a multi-millionaire.
He had $17 million to build a spreader in the library.
And then there was a lot of news.
to break the partnership, and it was impounded when I was trying to go see it, so I had to actually do investigative reporting, reading of information, you know, that kind of stuff.
But you do, you get the test, but it's all making it great in this case, don't you?
Yeah.
You get that, and you've invested that amount of time, in fact, you must have been in bad shape for me.
And let me tell you, the advance was a lot of money, and this was my first book.
Yeah.
And, you know, I play everything.
I mean, I quit my job because I couldn't serve the two masters.
Yeah.
Well, you don't understand.
I know I try very well.
Yeah.
You've got something that, you've got a 1,300-page manuscript?
Well, mine was 950, you know?
I don't know what you're talking about, don't you?
Anyway, I don't know what it means.
Wow.
So, and that was your one attempt outside of fiction then, right?
Yes.
Everybody should develop as a writer from that experience.
Good question.
I think, in fact, it helped me as a writer.
I think I learned a lot about looking outside of my house and trying to capture other characters.
This true detective book is a multi-point-of-view book, and I
I worked with a number of detectives and investigators, and I created very composite, a number of parents, and I have composites, and the kids, and the brothers, many brothers, there were no sisters, that didn't happen with the kids who had been picked up.
I think it made me a better writer, but I had a real part of it.
You got something out of it, though.
I'm happy with the book.
And the book did well, I gather.
The book did reasonably well.
I thought it would do better than it did.
I was a great admirer of In Cold Blood.
And this is going to be my own In Cold Blood.
And I think it's fantastic.
It's a book that I can pick up and begin to read.
And it will take me into it, in a way, as a reader.
that's reassuring me as a writer.
Was that your last book with Sophie?
No, I did two more, Winning the City and then A Collection of Stories.
But Winning the City came out in 1990, I guess.
A Collection of Stories followed in 1992, but by then, due to the recession, Jim was no longer
My book was published by a... I hesitate to... In fact, it was published by a taxpayer.
They situated someone to answer the phone.
Simon and Schuster had, because the publishing company no longer existed, and that's when my book came out.
I think I was the next to last publication.
I'm not going to get into this at all.
It wasn't reviewed.
It wasn't distributed.
I was at the Strand Bookstore a couple years ago.
A year and a half ago I was wanting to do the Strand Bookstore.
My daughter was there.
She got the American Academy of Arts and Matters and Composers Award.
We were in New York, had a big time all in the family getting together.
I wandered down to the street.
There was children's art.
You know, 150 copies of it on their shelves.
But I already had 20 or 30, so they're still there.
They're still there.
One of these days I'm in New York, I need to go in and buy some.
Anyway, that book really wasn't published.
It was printed, and it was put out, in fact.
There were no reviews.
Explain that.
It's a difference to me.
Well, some of the books have been gone through the printing sequence.
They created a book, and it was bound.
And that usually happens perhaps a month prior to publication date, say, five weeks, or something like that.
And then in that five-week period, some of the books went into bankruptcy,
No, they didn't go into bankruptcy.
They just went to end up to the expectations of... Well, some had closed them down.
I mean, some had closed them down within that period of time, and they all... There's nothing to do with bankruptcy.
I mean, that's a highly bankrupt.
Yeah, okay.
Well, from Jim's point of view, they failed financially.
Yeah.
From Jim Sullivan's point of view.
And he was gone, and Wendy Nicholson, who was the next...
person in charge.
They were all gone.
I mean, the guy who bought my book at home, Alan Peacock, that was a famous story, and he got fired as a senior editor, and it was too good, because it was right up in this week's PW.
Oh, was that right?
Yeah, he was the one who bought one of the finalists for the National Book Award, which they finally, you know, and they made three books that were acquired by SNS editors.
The editors got fired, you know, because these are high-quality editors.
Yeah.
But then nobody cares about them.
I mean, that's what happened to me until, you know, Joe Fox became my enemy.
He didn't care a lot.
He didn't even want to read the book.
He didn't even want to read it.
I said, I got to enjoy it and see two chapters.
The only reason you feel you need the reassurance.
I did.
You don't want to say that.
You're following me.
I'd like to know if you like it, you know.
Anyway, I don't want to get into that stuff.
My wounds are kind of healed.
But, you know, how do you feel about that, I mean, for the record?
that particular experience for the record?
For the record?
Oh, I felt just abandoned and let, you know, cut adrift without any help.
Had you been assigned an editor and named, at least?
I don't think so.
So the thing was him?
The thing was just...
I spoke to the young woman on the phone a number of times who was at the desk, and she said, I'm just covering the desk.
Well, this procedure is taking place, and I was calling saying a book's gone out for review, and she said, I'm sure they have.
I never recall getting one.
No one ever got one.
I don't know the thing.
I think I got one.
I didn't even ever check, for example.
I should probably show a check.
We should see every evening.
I'll review this because they cover most books published, I don't think.
So, you know, this puts you in kind of an awkward position for the next book now, isn't it?
Yeah.
So, I was out on my own then.
And what year was it?
It was 92.
That's pretty recent.
Yeah.
And I started working on this new novel, November 5th, which was underway.
And I was working on it every time.
And then when I finished it, and in the meantime, back there in the mid-80s, Gary Fitzgerald, as an editor at Random House, had conceived a vintage format.
Marty Asher was there now.
Yeah, Marty Asher was the current editor.
Gary, I think.
Marty, it looks like.
He was one of one of my book on the first time.
Oh, is that right?
Yeah.
And in fact, we had a hard-sought deal.
But then when Becky Salatand left and went to Simon's sister, he was out of the loop.
He didn't even know my book was his house.
And I'm sure it never would have happened, but, you know, I always... I'm sorry.
Okay, so Garner was over at Vintage.
I didn't realize he was a Vintage.
I've known him since the early...
Gary, since the early 80s, I've met him when he was a young editor.
He came to a writer's concert, and I met him when he was young.
He may have still been in his 20s as an editor.
Yeah, I think he's much more now than... He's still like 30.
Okay.
I don't know.
I guess.
I guess he's 37, 38.
Alan Allen is both my own.
Alan Allen is my own.
It's great to have a young editor.
Yeah, he did.
He's probably all about us, you know.
Yeah.
Everybody raised it by him, you know.
I'm sorry, Ray.
Well, anyway, Gary had published... They were going to do a copy from the first wave of vintage books.
His ideas had reached back into the memory of the past and published books, you know, selected kind of books.
And early on, they...
He got in touch, and he wanted to be McCarthy.
But we decided to wait and publish it, coincidentally, with True to Texas.
So it came out in 1987.
The vintage version did.
And I worked with Gary at that time.
So now jumping ahead to 1992 or 3, when I was without a publisher, and Gary had served all over the place in the meantime as well.
and then returned to Knopf as a manuscript.
And I had my agent send me a copy of the manuscript, the Finnish manuscript, and then we got into contact.
Great.
Who was your agent?
To your master.
M-A-T-S-O-N.
And how long did you get your agent?
Peter Madsen has been my agent.
What's my agent?
Beginning in 1971.
Who was the agent?
He was my first agent.
Although, what happened... Peter was my first agent.
He worked for his uncle, the Harold Madsen agency.
He was a young agent.
John Irving and I were.
Two of his first writers.
I don't know.
probably should be off the record.
In any case, Peter called up one day and said he was going to break away from Harold and started on the agency and said, take two writers with him and he was going to make a million dollars, myself and John Irving.
And I had two, I owed these contracts to the Harold National Agency and I said, Peter, I can't break from Harold, I still owe these books to him.
Well, in any case, I stayed with Harold.
He went off and started his own agency, and John Irving went with me, and then a couple years later, John hit his third day with Earl McCrane.
I was still with Harold, and after another year, a couple years after that, I'd split from Harold and went without an agent for a while, and then I returned, and
It's a business thing.
And I had something of a friendship because of the number of years that we worked together.
But no, not a creative thing.
Gary Testy-John has been a wonderful editor for me.
He's only a really good editor.
Gary does line editing.
He makes a lot of suggestions.
And I thought it helped a great deal, tightening the line.
Well, obviously, this title is clear in the very last chapter of the book.
Is this a title of work from the beginning?
No.
No, the working title was Dining Out with Erich Avant.
I saved that.
That was my title.
I wanted to call it something about Germany, and I, in fact, had a foreword in which I
talked about the whole business stuff.
I like it better.
Do you?
Whatever that's worth.
No one likes it.
I don't think on Novemberfest carries the whole... I mean, I see it.
But how does it unite the whole novel?
How does it resonate with the novel?
Well, one of the... Certainly one of the themes I have in mind in that
As you can see, we're making a transition here in the interview.
We're going into the work now, okay?
One of the things I really wanted to get at in the book was the sense of being in the fifties now, being my age, and the kind of play that the past might have for
kind of middle-aged, hair-thinning, hair-grain, white male.
And the kind of hammering in the back has come down on the group of us.
Of 51.
You're 51, yeah.
I mean, I know you're talking to me in this novel.
Well, I wanted to, in a sense, I mean, the way the title works, that title works for me is that it says something to the effect of, here's what it is like to be in the November of your life.
And you have the past.
Okay, good.
Very good.
Okay.
I want to carry that.
Life goes on over your head.
I really, well, I have a couple of great lines that aren't in that show.
That version, in the very concluding chapter, or part of the book, I have a couple of my touches that I finally did on.
It seemed to be, I was trying to get home a bit on what I was trying to have that title say.
But I really wanted to capture what it was like, what it's like to be young.
That was the key, the important thing to me.
And let's play that against what it's like to be a certain age and see how the world has shifted so much away from what your expectations would be.
And of course, a good metaphor for this is this tenure track stuff.
And this denial of tenure, I mean, this is really, in a very concrete way, I mean, people are going through this, losing jobs, or jobs are being paid, but this is very definite.
You don't make tenure.
Yeah.
It's like being in the service.
You don't make Lieutenant Colonel or whatever.
If you get passed over two or three times, you're gone or you want to be gone or not.
But it has come to... Tell me a little bit about this, working in this process as a guy teaching.
Terrific teacher.
Everybody acknowledges he's wonderful.
Hasn't published directly a number of things and stuff.
Of course, now we want the women and the main minorities.
I sense a degree of... Is it anger on your part?
Is this kind of a development?
Are people being... Is this a comment on... Oh, I'm assuming that anger is, I guess, a feeling of... A disillusioning feeling of... I think that a lot of men...
my age would feel of the world, I don't know, betrayal, but it's just that it all shifted away and treats, categorizes and treats money as dishonorable, hard to speak, even though it's not deserved.
And things have changed
in a very profound way, and I teach and my students today write, and perhaps they wrote about a decade or two ago, I don't really remember what they did, but there is not a white male figure who appears in anyone's fiction, who is not, and is a molester and abuser, a brutalizer,
It's not a bigot.
It's not a warmonger.
They're obviously pretty badly experienced.
I don't know what I should say.
Yeah.
So that's the solution.
And I wanted to capture that kind of broad disappointment in a novel.
But I wanted to play it against
the more meaningful, satisfying expectations that one would have had as a young person.
That's part of the reason why I really wanted to capture what it's like to be a young soldier.
And it's a love story.
I certainly wanted to try very hard to try to capture what it is to experience love.
And then you play that against always disappointment.
And I won't, I never give things away, but I was really cheering in the penultimate chapter segment at the end.
She's going to go meet her, you know.
And it was all the same conversation they had, you know, 40 years earlier.
And then as she makes the phone call, I go, oh, man, all right, good.
You know, the guy's on it.
and whatever happens, happens where she's living the elegant life, and she couldn't work, but then he's in the car.
It was very late.
I didn't think she could.
She couldn't do it.
She couldn't come through with a needle.
Well, I think it is interesting.
I forget where the Thomas Wolfe room is.
The Thomas Wolfe
Where is it?
It's in Berlin.
Yeah, well, I mean, there is a... You talk about being unable to go back to the... I mean, that's impossible, isn't it, to go back?
Yeah.
I mean for it to be a positive ending.
Well, you know, it's bittersweet, but... Well, he's getting some work through being recognized.
Yeah, and I like that.
And an area that they tell him is impossible.
They put their noses down in translation, right?
Mm-hmm.
And that's kind of a commentary, too, isn't it?
I mean, every guy finds satisfaction in being the translator of these works.
But these clowns give them no credit for it.
Yeah.
Well, I guess we can keep going.
How's your coffee holding up?
Would you like more?
Are you going to have some?
Sure.
Why don't we take a little break here?
Okay.